Surfing is a surface water pastime in which the wave rider, referred to as a surfer, 
rides on the forward part, or face, of a moving wave, which usually carries the 
surfer towards the shore. Waves suitable for surfing are primarily found in the 
ocean, but can also be found in lakes or rivers in the form of a standing wave or 
tidal bore. However, surfers can also utilize artificial waves such as those from 
boat wakes and the waves created in artificial wave pools.
The term surfing usually refers to the act of riding a wave using a board,
regardless of the stance. There are several types of boards. The native peoples
of the Pacific, for instance, surfed waves on alaia, paipo, and other such
craft, and did so on their belly and knees. The modern-day definition of
surfing, however, most often refers to a surfer riding a wave standing on a
surfboard; this is also referred to as stand-up surfing. Another prominent form
of surfing is body boarding, when a surfer rides the wave on a bodyboard, either
lying on their belly, drop knee (one foot and one knee on the board), or
sometimes even standing up on a body board. Other types of surfing include knee
boarding, surf matting (riding inflatable mats), and using foils. Body surfing,
where the wave is surfed without a board, using the surfer's own body to catch
and ride the wave, is very common and is considered by some to be the purest
form of surfing. The closest form of body surfing using a board is a handboard
which normally has one strap over it to fit one hand in. Three major
subdivisions within stand-up surfing are stand-up paddling, long boarding and
short boarding with several major differences including the board design and
length, the riding style, and the kind of wave that is ridden. In tow-in surfing
(most often, but not exclusively, associated with big wave surfing), a motorized
water vehicle such as a personal watercraft, tows the surfer into the wave front
helping the surfer match a large wave's speed, which is generally a higher speed
than a self-propelled surfer can produce. Surfing-related sports such as paddle
boarding and sea kayaking do not require waves, and other derivative sports such
as kite surfing and windsurfing rely primarily on wind for power, yet all of
these platforms may also be used to ride waves. Recently with the use of V-drive
boats, Wakesurfing, in which one surfs on the wake of a boat, has emerged. The
Guinness Book of World Records recognized a 23.8 m (78 ft) wave ride by Garrett
McNamara at Nazaré, Portugal as the largest wave ever surfed.
